Hi everyone and welcome
to our final video of
the seventh module on
motion planning for
self-driving cars.
In this lesson, we'll be
introducing a method to generate
a velocity profile for
a given input path
generated by our
path planning algorithm.
If you recall from Module one,
there are many
different factors that
affect velocity
profile generation.
In particular, we will focus on
the reference velocity provided
by the behavior planner,
the velocity of dynamic
obstacles in front of us,
and the velocity
required to maintain
passenger comfort and
vehicle stability.
By the end of this video,
you should be able to construct
velocity profiles
along plan paths that
take into account
reference velocities
from different behavior
planning situations,
time to collision to
a leading dynamic obstacle,
and comfort constraints.
Finally, you should
be able to implement
a linear ramp velocity profile
as well as a trapezoidal
velocity profile.
So let's get started.
The first step in generating
a velocity profile is
determining our final
required velocity.
A good initial value
for our final velocity
is the reference velocity
given to us by
the behavior planner.
This reference velocity will
largely be influenced by
the maneuver that
the behavior plan
selected based on
the current driving scenario.
For example, if we are stopped at
an intersection and
the light is still red,
the behavior planner will
issue a stopped maneuver to
the local planner
which will include
outputting a zero
velocity reference.
If we're currently driving
straight along a given road,
the reference
velocity may just be
the speed limit of
that current road.
We will denote this by
V ref going forward.
The next input we take into
consideration are
the dynamic obstacle states.
In particular, we focus on
the lead vehicle in front of us.
The lead vehicle speed
regulates our speed,
because if we exceed
the lead vehicle speed,
we will eventually
collide with it.
Recall that the time
to collision is
a function of
our relative velocity to
the lead vehicle as well
as the length of the path
to the lead vehicle
given by s. Therefore,
to preserve a safe time
to collision,
we will take our reference
velocity to be the minimum of
the lead vehicle speed
and the behavior plan
or reference speed.
In addition, we need
to make sure that
we are below
the lead vehicle speed
before we reach
their current location
for this planning iteration
because otherwise,
we are still at risk for
colliding with them.
In general, when dealing
with dynamic obstacles,
it is good to leave
space and time buffers
in our calculations for safety.
Therefore, if the end
of our path lies
ahead of the current position
of the lead vehicle,
we need to make sure that
our final velocity is reached
before that point including
leaving a spatial buffer,
as shown here by
the red point along the path.
By the time we reach
the red point in
our velocity profile,
we will need to have reached
the lead vehicle speed,
if it is moving slower than us.
The lead vehicle will move
ahead by the time we reach
the current position.
At that point, we will
have reached its speed
preventing us from
colliding with it.
Note that we can also take lead
vehicle tracking one
step further and
directly ensure
a safe time to collision
or separation distance
given a lead vehicle speed,
but this changes
the control function to
a relative distance tracking
from a relative
velocity tracking,
so we'll stick to the velocity
based approach in this video.
The final input we consider is
the maximum curvature
along our planned path.
Recall from our last
lesson that when
we sampled the optimized path,
we record the curvature
of the spiral at
each point denoted by capital I.
In addition, we
mentioned in Module one,
that there is a maximum
lateral acceleration
required to remain inside
the comfort rectangle.
The lateral acceleration
as a function of
the instantaneous curvature as
well as the longitudinal speed
along the curve.
Therefore, the curvature bounds
the longitudinal
velocity that we can
take while traversing our path.
We can enforce this by
ensuring the velocity stays
below the required limit
at each point on the path.
However, if the curvature
changes rapidly,
we may not be able to achieve
the required velocity while
remaining within our longitudinal
acceleration bounds.
We therefore also find
the maximum curvature
across all points in
our path and then find
the associated maximum speed
for that point.
Our profile must then reach
this required speed by
the point in the path.
We therefore define
a deceleration to
the required speed at
the minimum point and
an acceleration afterward.
We can repeat this process for
the next largest violation
of the curvature
constraint and so
on until the velocity profile
satisfies the curvature
constraints along its length.
A simpler approach that is
useful for the assessments in
this course is to identify
the maximum curvature point,
set the associated speed,
and then simply maintain
that speed until
we pass the point.
Since we are continuously
re-planning in
a receding horizon manner,
once the high curvature
point is reached,
the new velocity profiles
generated will naturally
raise the speed based on
the other objectives
defined earlier.
In essence, we can simplify
the velocity profile
generation process
to the act of combining
our curvature-based
maximum speed with
our previous two
maximum speeds from
the behavior planner
and the lead vehicle by
taking the minimum of all three
as the desired final velocity
of our profile.
Next, we need to discuss what
the shape of our velocity
profile is going to be.
One possible simple option is
to generate a linear ramp profile
from our current velocity to
our desired final velocity
that we calculated earlier.
When planning our profile,
we know the total arc
length of our path,
denoted s, and our initial
and final speed.
The first thing we
need to calculate
is our required acceleration,
which we can solve for directly
with our given inputs.
We have to be careful to ensure
that this calculated acceleration
doesn't exceed
our comfort rectangle
as we discussed
earlier in the course.
If it does exceed
the comfort rectangle,
then we will need to clamp it.
If an acceleration or
deceleration is required that
exceeds the comfort rectangle
but is required due
to safety concerns,
such as during
an emergency stop maneuver,
then we can bypass
this comfort rectangle
to prevent a crash.
If we do clamp our acceleration,
then we need to update
our final velocity
accordingly using
our maximum acceleration,
a max, instead of
our calculated acceleration, a.
Once we have our
acceleration profile,
we can then calculate
the velocity at each point along
the path by looking at the arc
length to the ith point.
By iterating through
the entire path and
calculating the required
velocity for each point,
we have completely generated
a velocity profile
along our path to get to
our desired end velocity.
An alternative profile is
the trapezoidal profile.
It's useful when a car is
approaching a stop sign,
and we want to decelerate
from our nominal speed to
a lower transit speed before then
decelerating again to
a stop at the stop sign.
For this velocity profile,
we take as our input,
our initial,
and final velocities,
our desired transit velocity,
and our desired deceleration.
This deceleration is usually
chosen to be well within
our comfort rectangle to make
the profile as
smooth as possible.
The first step with
this planner is to
calculate the distance
we will travel
during our initial deceleration
to our desired transit speed.
This is the arc length
traveled during
the first segment of
the trapezoidal profile and is
given by the first
equation here for Sa.
From this, we know
how much arc length along
our initial path should be
dedicated to our
initial deceleration.
The parameters for
this initial calculation
include our initial speed,
vi, the transit speed,
vt, and our gentle
deceleration value, a naught.
Once we have this arc
length value,
we can iterate through the points
up to that arc length and use
the second equation
shown to calculate
the required speed
for the ith point.
We can then repeat
a similar process for
the final deceleration from
the transit velocity to
rest at our stopped point.
We will denote the entire arc
length of our path as Sf.
So the third segment of
our profile has
length Sf minus Sb.
We can then solve
for Sb as follows.
Once we have Sb, we can
then iterate through
the points in
this arc length range
and assign them
the required velocities for
a gentle deceleration to a stop.
The remaining points
in the middle of
the profile then take
our constant transit speed,
v sub t. Putting
everything together,
we have three regions in
our velocity profile;
an initial ramp down to
our slow transit speed,
a constant traversal
at this transit speed,
and a final ramp down
to our stop point.
We've shown you
two methods here for
generating a velocity profile,
but there are many other options
available as well.
Using higher-order methods such
as biquadratic velocity planners,
we can minimize jerk along
the trajectory as well.
It's also possible to apply
higher-order functions
in our velocity ramp in
the two methods we've
shown here, which can
generate smoother and more
comfortable velocity profiles.
Ultimately, velocity profiles can
be optimized to meet multiple
objectives simultaneously
while satisfying comfort
and safety constraints
depending on the behavior
to be executed.
In developing a velocity
profile generator
for the final assessment,
you should feel free
to expand on any of
the concepts discussed in
this video, as seems appropriate.
To summarize, in this video,
we discussed how to incorporate
the output reference
velocity from
our behavior planner into
our velocity profile
generation process.
We also discussed how
to use the time to
collision to inform
our velocity profile generation,
and we incorporated
lateral acceleration
constraints as well.
Finally, we discussed how to
calculate linear ramp
and trapezoidal
velocity profiles to implement
velocity transitions
along a path.
This completes the seventh
module on motion planning.
Let's summarize the main points.
You first learn to work with
two kinds of curves for
path planning;
splines and spirals.
You then define
the objectives and
constraints needed to formulate
the path planning problem.
You developed experience
with the psi pi optimize
function and applied it to
a conformal lattice planner
to identify collision-free paths.
Finally, you learned
how to construct
the velocity profile along
the path to satisfy
multiple constraints.
You should now have
enough knowledge to
integrate a path planner and
velocity profile planner to build
your very own local planner
from the ground up.
You'll learn more about this in
the final project in
the next module.
We'll see you there.